Earth is the third planet from the sun in our solar system. The name Earth comes from the old English and Germanic words meaning "the ground". Scientists have calculated the Earth to be around 4.5 billion years old. Like all the planets, Earth orbits around around the sun. The Earth travels around the sun at 30 kilometres per second and takes 365 days (one year) to complete one orbit. Earth has four seasons. We have seasons because the planet is tilted on its access by 23.4 degrees, an imaginary line straight through the Earth between the North Pole to the South Pole. This means different parts of the globe are tilted towards the sun at different times of the year. As a result, the temperature on Earth varies a lot depending on where you are at what time of year. Not only does Earth zoom through space, it also spins on its axis. The result is we have daytime and nighttime. As the planet rotates, the side facing the sun receives daylight and the other side is in darkness. Everything on earth is kind of glued to the Earth through gravity. Gravity is an invisible attraction of an object. Since the earth is so large, it has lots of gravity that keeps us from floating off into space. And the Sun is increadibly large and has enough gravity to keep the entire solor system together. Earth is the fifth largest planet in the solar system, part of the inner planets. The outer planets of Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune are much larger than Earth. To give you perspective, 1321 Earths could fit inside Jupiter, and 1000 Jupiters could fit inside the Sun! Earth is the only planet in our solar system known to support life. This is because Earth has lots of oxygen and lots of liquid water which are two very important things that living creatures need to survive. The distance of the Earth from the sun means it is not too hot and not too cold for creatures to live on. For comparison, the temperature of neighboring planets range from -128 celcius on Mars to 464 celcius on Venus. The atmosphere of Earth also has lots of gases that protect our planet from the damaging rays of the sun. At the same time, the atmosphere helps keep the temperature on Earth comfortable for living beings – and it protects us from meteors, too, which mostly always burn up in the atmosphere before crashing into the ground.